---
layout: post
title: "An open letter to Pebble"
---

Last week I heard about the [rumoured buyout of Pebble by Fitbit](https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/30/fitbit-pebble/). As an Apple fan, I'm sometimes asked why I would wear a Pebble rather than an Apple Watch. There are two main reasons:

1. For as long as I can remember, I've always been obsessed about time. I started wearing a watch when I was 6 or so, and have always felt a bit weird when there wasn't one on my wrist. For me, the biggest benefit of a watch is being able to glance at the time. An Apple Watch shows a blank face for almost all of its time on a person's wrist, and requires a flipping motion to show the time. This isn't ideal for me. My Pebble Time Steel is **always** showing the time.
2. I'm used to watches that last years on a battery. Having another item to charge daily is a pain. My Pebble Time Steel lasts more than a week per charge, which is orders of magnitude better than the competition.

Because I've been so happy with my Time Steel, [I also backed the Time 2](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/597507018/pebble-2-time-2-and-core-an-entirely-new-3g-ultra).  I was very much looking forward to the larger screen and heartrate sensor. But since backing, there's been radio silence on when I should expect to see this product, if ever.

I respect that hardware manufacturing is a tough beat. I'd also bet that, despite my preference for Pebble's choices, most people would prefer different design decisions. As well, I'd guess that a Fitbit buyout means there's also some embargo on news until the deal goes through. All this said: I feel under-informed and frustrated. I've backed enough projects on Kickstarter to understand that delays are normal, and things don't always go as planned. It's only when there's a lack of communication that I really start getting worried.

Below is the email I just sent to [support@pebble.com](mailto:support@pebble.com)

> Hi,
>
> I love my Pebble Time Steel, and am extremely saddened by the lack of communication about the Pebble Time 2. I backed this product because I want a smart watch that's always displaying the time, and that doesn't require daily charging.
>
> Since backing in late May, there have been no product delivery updates related to the Time 2. In your campaign copy you state (emphasis added):
>
> > Each reward tier may have a different estimated shipment month. While we do not expect these to change, it is possible that the estimated shipment month may shift. **We will provide updates when/if the estimated shipment date changes.** At anytime up until your watch has shipped, you may request a full refund by emailing support@pebble.com.
>
> The Pebble Time 2 has missed its estimated shipping window. As well, there have recently been well-reported rumours about a Fitbit buyout. This buyout could further affect product delivery.
>
> **Because of this, I am now requesting a full refund.**
>
> Please refund the $184 you collected for the account with email address […]
>
> Thank you.